content/_index.md, before:

---
title: "AWS and Coder AI-Powered Development Workshop"
chapter: true
weight: 10
---

# AWS and Coder AI-Powered Development Workshop

![Partner Logo](/images/coder-logo-black.png)

## Welcome to the Future of Development

Welcome to the AWS and Coder AI-Powered Development Workshop – your gateway to transforming developer productivity through cloud-native development environments enhanced with artificial intelligence. This hands-on workshop demonstrates how to eliminate development friction while supercharging coding workflows with AI assistance.

## The Developer Experience Revolution

Imagine a world where:
- **New developers are productive in minutes, not days** – No more "it works on my machine" or lengthy environment setup
- **AI becomes your coding partner** – Amazon Q Developer and Anthropic Claude Code provide intelligent code suggestions, reviews, and documentation
- **Security is built-in, not bolted-on** – Centralized, compliant cloud development environments with audit trails
- **Resources scale automatically** – Pay only for what you use with intelligent capacity management
- **Teams collaborate seamlessly** – Shared cloud development environment templates ensure consistency across projects

This isn't a vision of the future – it's what you'll build today.

## Ready to Transform Development?

The future of software development is cloud-native, AI-enhanced, and incredibly productive. Let's build it together.

{{% notice warning %}}
The examples and sample code provided in this workshop are intended to be consumed as instructional content. These will help you understand how various AWS services can be architected to build a solution while demonstrating best practices along the way. These examples are not intended for use in production environments.
{{% /notice %}}

### Let's Begin Your Journey
Start by by introducing you to the power of Coder Cloud Development Environments (CDEs) on AWS.

Commit message:

review and updates from workshop smoke-testing

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: "AWS and Coder AI-Powered Development Workshop"
chapter: true
weight: 10
---

# AWS and Coder AI-Powered Development Workshop

![Partner Logo](/images/coder-logo-black.png)

## Welcome to the Future of Development

Welcome to the AWS and Coder AI-Powered Development Workshop – your gateway to transforming developer productivity through cloud-native development environments enhanced with artificial intelligence. This hands-on workshop demonstrates how to eliminate development friction while supercharging coding workflows with AI assistance.

## The Developer Experience Revolution

Imagine a world where:
- **New developers are productive in minutes, not days** – No more "it works on my machine" or lengthy environment setup
- **AI becomes your coding partner** – Amazon Q Developer and Anthropic Claude Code provide intelligent code suggestions, reviews, and documentation
- **Security is built-in, not bolted-on** – Centralized, compliant cloud development environments with audit trails
- **Resources scale automatically** – Pay only for what you use with intelligent capacity management
- **Teams collaborate seamlessly** – Shared cloud development environment templates ensure consistency across projects

This isn't a vision of the future – it's what you'll build today.

## Cost of Workshop
If you are running this as part of an AWS hosted event and, in the sandbox provided to you, then there is no cost for you.
If you are running the workshop **in your own environment**, use the Region us-east-1, you will incur costs for the resources you launch, and API calls you make. Examples include EKS Cluster, EC2 Instances, Cloudfront Distribution, and ELB. Costs may vary based on resources deployed/utilized. We recommend that you check the official pricing pages and monitor costs. You can use [AWS Pricing Calculator](https://calculator.aws/#/) for estimation.

## Ready to Transform Development?

The future of software development is cloud-native, AI-enhanced, and incredibly productive. Let's build it together.

{{% notice warning %}}
The examples and sample code provided in this workshop are intended to be consumed as instructional content. These will help you understand how various AWS services can be architected to build a solution while demonstrating best practices along the way. These examples are not intended for use in production environments.
{{% /notice %}}

### Let's Begin Your Journey
Start by by introducing you to the power of Coder Cloud Development Environments (CDEs) on AWS.
