content/0_getting-started/02-own-account/index.md, before:

---
title: Using Your Own AWS Account
weight: 22
---

::alert[If you are running this workshop on your own AWS account, remember to delete all resources by following the [Cleanup instructions](/5_conclusion/52_cleanup.html) to avoid unnecessary charges.]{type="warning"}

## Workshop resources

The following resources will be deployed to run the workshop:

- AWS CloudShell environment.
- AWS EKS Cluster with supporting VPC, Subnets, Elastic Load-Balancer, EC2 Node Group with EBS Storage and supporting IAM Roles.

::alert[The role used to bootstrap the account will require sufficient permissions to provision the resources above.]{type="info"}

## Download and execute the helm installation script

We will be using the Kubernetes Helm utility from the AWS Clooudshell. If Helm is not already available in your Cloushell, we will then downlad the script to provision the utility.

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS CloudShell console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudshell/.

2. In the menu bar, for **Select a Region**, choose the region in which you will be running the workshop.

3. Run the following commands in CloudShell terminal.
```bash
# Install Helm using the official script
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3 > get-helm-3.sh
chmod +x get-helm-3.sh && ./get-helm-3.sh
```
```bash
# Verify the installation
helm version --short
```

::alert[You may need to re-install **helm** if your AWS cloudshell session timesout and restarts.  Simply re-use the created `get-helm-3.sh` bash script.]{type="info"}

::alert[If you are running this workshop on your own AWS account, remember to delete all resources by following the [Cleanup instructions](/5_conclusion/52_cleanup.html) to avoid unnecessary charges.]{type="warning"}

Commit message:

Cleaned from old structure; updated with Coder URL output; updated "in own account" to use CFN

content/0_getting-started/02-own-account/index.md, after:

---
title: Using Your Own AWS Account
weight: 22
---

::alert[Note, you might occur charges for provisioned resources below. The amount depends how long you will be experimenting with Coder and how many workspaces you will provision.]{type="warning"}

## Workshop resources

The following resources will be deployed to run the workshop:
- Amazon EKS cluster (`coder-aws-cluster`) with Auto Mode, which allows to automatically provision and manage compute capacity, networking, and storage based on your workload requirements. This reduces operational overhead while optimizing costs.
- VPC with public/private subnets across multiple Availability Zones
- EKS node groups with optimized instance types
- AWS Load Balancer Controller and EBS CSI driver
- IAM roles and policies for secure AWS service integration
- PostgreSQL database for Coder persistence
- Coder control plane services and web interface
- Network Load Balancer for external access
- CloudFront distribution for secure content delivery
- Kubernetes Service accounts and additional IAM roles for workspace provisioning

## Key Benefits of This Architecture

- **High Availability**: Multi-AZ deployment ensures resilience
- **Auto Scaling**: EKS Auto Mode automatically manages capacity
- **Security**: Encrypted storage, private networking, and least-privilege IAM
- **Cost Optimization**: Pay-per-use scaling and efficient resource utilization

::alert[The role used to bootstrap the account will require sufficient permissions to provision the resources above.]{type="info"}

## Download and execute the CFN installation script

Download Cloud Formation Template :link[**here**.]{href=":assetUrl{path="../static/infrastructure/eks-cluster.yaml"}" action=download} to automatically provision AWS instrustructure needed and to deploy Coder. Use AWS CLI or *AWS Management Console -> Cloud Formation -> Create Stack* and select the option *Upload a template file*. 

You will need to provider a stack name. You can leave the rest parameters as is.

::alert[Note the deployment takes 20-30 minutes. Time for a little break and coffee! Feel free to explore the content and Coder termonilogy and continue with hands-on when deployment completed!]{type="warning"}

::alert[If you are running this workshop on your own AWS account, remember to delete all resources by following the [Cleanup instructions](/5_conclusion/52_cleanup.html) to avoid unnecessary charges.]{type="warning"}
